I am Abd al-Rahman ibn Khaldun born in 1332
in current day Tunisia. I was an Arab historian,
philosopher, and statesman whose treatise,
the Muqaddima, in which I pioneered a general
sociological theory of history. Scholars consider
me as one of the most original thinkers of
the Middle Ages.
My family are of southern Arabian origin.
They settled in Seville, current day Spain
and were distinguished as the political and
intellectuals of the city. Shortly before
the Christian reconquest we left and eventually
settled in Tunis. I always felt attached to
the cultural tradition of Muslim Spain. I
studied the traditional religious sciences,
law, and the arts necessary for a career in
government. I served in Granada, Cairo and
many middle eastern and North African governments
of the day in many ways seeking stability,
peace and influence.
I have many books and publications in the
fields of economy, philosophy, evolutionary
biology, and sociology. I observed that a
society in its earliest stages is nomadic
and primarily concerned with survival, while
a society at a later stage is sedentary, with
greater achievement in crafts. I also emphasized
the important aspect that educational tradition
plays to ensure the new generations of a civilization
continuously improve in the sciences and develop
culture. The most famous book I wrote is the
Book of Lessons, a history of the world. The
first part, Muqaddimah which translates as
the Introduction, is often used alone. This
book is often credited as inventing sociology.
Public recognition of my work has increased
in recent years. In 2004, the Tunisian Community
Center launched the first Ibn Khaldun Award
to recognize a Tunisian/American high achiever
whose work reflects my ideas of kinship and
solidarity. In 2006, Spain commemorated the
600th anniversary of the death of my life
by orchestrating an exhibit titled "Encounter
of Civilizations: Ibn Khaldun.". I have been
cherished by modern leaders such as Vladimir
Lenin, Ronald Reagan and many others.
I am described as the founder of the modern
disciplines of historiography, sociology,
economics, and demography. I hope my works
have contributed to the prosperity of all
civilizations across the world.